<pre>
  NEP: <to be assigned>
  Title: NEO Storage Hashing
  Author: Wing Yung Chan (~wy) <wingyungchan@gmail.com>, F27 Ventures Development, Vitor Nazário Coelho (~vncoelho) <vncoelho@gmail.com>, NeoResearch
  Type: Standard
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-08-27
</pre>

==Abstract==

Add a hash for each block to represent the changes to Storage.

==Motivation==

Currently blocks contain a hash which amongst other things, is a hash of the ordered list of transactions contained in the Block.
However, the changes to Storage are not recorded in the block. Consequently, different node implementations may agree on block hashes but have completely different states.
As a result, we have nodes that are on mainnet with a block sequence that agrees with other nodes but differs on Storage calls, with no easy way to know who is correct.

Neo is a multi-national community, in which contributions come from different backgrounds and distinct programming languages. It is our task to provide didactic tools that minimize error possibilities and help everyone to stay aligned.

==Specification==

A Block contains a number of transactions (tx's) which the NEO VM will process in the sequence it receives from the Block.
Some transactions are invocation calls on Smart Contracts. Each smart contract has the opportunity to have its own isolated storage space, part of 'Storage'.
As the transactions are processed, there may be 1 or more calls that modify Storage for a particular Smart Contract. This will always be in the same order.
The two current method calls that can enact a change are Storage.Delete(key) and Storage.Put(key, value).

# Storage.Delete(key) => "Delete" + key.toBytes()
# Storage.Put(key, value) => "Put" + key.toBytes() + value.toBytes()

<pre>
For a given Smart Contract with address A and at Block B,
StorageHash(A, B) = hash(sum(storage_hash(op_1), ..., storage_hash(op_i), ..., storage_hash(op_n))) for `op_i` in [Storage.Delete(key), Storage.Put(key,value)], with n being the number of operations to that SC scripthash in a specific block B.
Then, StorageHash(B) = hash(StorageHash(A_0, B), ..., StorageHash(A_i, B), ..., StorageHash(A_c, B)) for A_0,... called in B.txs, with c being the number of SC scripthashes invoked in block B.
</pre>

==Rationale==

If two nodes N1 and N2 are both at Block B and for each Block 0, ..., b, ..., B: StorageHash_N1(b) === StorageHash_N2(b), then
The 'Storage' of both nodes is identical in the sense that Storage.Get(contract, key) will return the same for any (contract, key).

At the moment, we have no such guarantees and there are examples where some nodes have Block hash agreement but differ on Storage.
This may be due to bugs in the implementations of the nodes, internal state corruption, or other.

Since there are now dozens of NEP-5 Tokens with real economic value residing exclusively in Storage as well as discussions on https://github.com/neo-project/neo/issues/338 to move off of UTXO into Storage, it makes sense to be able to validate Storage consistency across nodes at various Blockheights.

==Backwards Compatibility==

It would preferable to store the Block's overall StorageHash in the blockchain itself (i.e. in the block metadata), however, for backwards compatbility this can be stored in Storage.

==Test Cases==

This has no impact to Consensus so no test cases are needed for this NEP.

==Implementation==

Implementations will follow.
